# us-rse-23-poster

This repository accompanies the poster "JupyterIDE: Promoting JupyterLab features and extensions that facilitate collaboration among researchers and RSEs" presented at [US-RSE'23](https://us-rse.org/usrse23/). Similar to the poster, this repository details some of the [JupyterIDE](https://github.com/Accessible-Data-and-Code/jupyterlab-ide) project goals and showcasing useful tools for making JupyterLab a more powerful development environment.

# Abstract
Jupyter Notebooks are open-source tools researchers commonly use to develop workflows and other software. Researchers and RSEs alike are most likely familiar with the Classic Notebook interface, the original web application for creating and sharing notebooks, but there are several other coding environments to choose from. An Integrated Development Environment (IDE) is a software application that provides helpful features beyond traditional source code editors, such as debuggers, for developing software. However, IDEs such as VSCode can present a barrier to entry for researchers familiar with other tools. JupyterLab, an alternative developed by Project Jupyter, is an extensible development environment for notebooks that comes with many IDE-like features, including a debugger and tab expansion. Additionally, the community maintains many other helpful extensions that do not ship with the default environment. Our JupyterIDE project collects and curates useful extensions and provides notebook-based tutorials for how to use them. Tutorial-style notebooks include notebooks on Vim keybindings, which make cell manipulation faster and easier, and language server processing, which provides code auto-completion and linting features. Tools like these can make JupyterLab an ideal environment for developing research workflows that can be used by seasoned RSEs who are accustomed to IDE features in collaboration with researchers who may not have interest in investing time into learning a new tool. JupyterIDE makes these tools more accessible for users and promotes software engineering best practices in a research environment.

